[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>LISA GARR: Hi, I'm Lisa Garr,
host of "Gaiam Inspirations."
So how good are you
at surrendering?
Let me ask you a few questions.
Do you recognize that you
cannot control everything?
Can you admit that you don't
always have to be right?
Can you be spontaneous?
Can you enjoy life
and stop long enough
to let a beautiful day in?
Joining me is Dr. Judith Orloff.
She's a psychiatrist
and an intuition expert.
She's the author of her
newly released book called
"The Ecstasy of Surrender:
12 Surprising Ways
Letting Go Can
Empower Your Life."
Welcome.
Thank you for being here.
>>DR. JUDITH ORLOFF:
Oh, you're welcome.
>>LISA: I joke because the
therapy session begins now.
>>ORLOFF: The surrender
therapy session.
>>LISA: Yes, please.
This show is for me today
and for everyone listening
because how many people have
you encountered since coming out
with the book that
have control issues?
>>ORLOFF: Hahaha.
Everybody.
>>LISA: Everybody, right?
What is that?
What does it stem from, Judith?
>>ORLOFF: Well, I think our
society is so control oriented
that we're not taught as
children to surrender.
You know, the assets
of really letting go
and not clenching and forcing.
We're taught to push the river,
make our dreams come true,
and make that
relationship happen,
and make that job happen,
and do it all on will.
And what I'm saying
is that surrender
is knowing when to do that,
when to really go forward,
and when to let go and let
spirit come in to help you.
Because we're in a flow.
And if you're just doing
everything on self will,
you're going to get
tired very quickly.
>>LISA: Yes, I know this.
So why is it so hard, though,
for people to surrender?
Why is that so challenging?
>>ORLOFF: Well, I think
in the West, people
associate surrender with defeat,
with weakness, with giving up.
They look at it in a military
way, like you're giving up.
And that's so not what
I'm talking about.
Surrender as a devotional path
in many spiritual practices
is common throughout the world.
It's just not in
Western culture.
So as I've been
touring with the book,
and I've been in particularly
mainstream media,
I really have to educate people
about what surrender means
because it's very
scary to people
not to be in control
every minute.
But the good news
and the bad news
is you can't be in control
every minute no matter what.
>>LISA: Well, I mean,
let's talk about why
we want to control
in the first place.
Is it for safety?
>>ORLOFF: Yeah, it's to
feel safe, to feel secure.
I can control my environment.
I can control this life, which
we really can't because we
begin here.
We live our lives.
And then the ultimate surrender,
which is the last chapter,
is letting go to death
and the afterlife.
There comes a time where
we all must surrender.
It's so inevitable in our cells.
It's something that's for sure.
And we can't fight it.
And this terrifies people.
The smaller surrenders sometimes
mimic the larger surrender
of actually letting
go of the body.
But that's the big one.
Before that, I mean, there
are so many things in life
to surrender to that
will increase your energy
and make you more flexible,
make you more feminine,
make you more masculine,
bring you into your true self
instead of this clenched, tight,
rigid person who's miserable
inside.
>>LISA: Do you equate
surrender to little mini
deaths of the ego at all?
>>ORLOFF: Hopefully.
Yes.
The ego is a very
beautiful thing.
And the ego can help us excel
and all kinds of things,
but it's not our god.
We must be in
devotion to humility.
And when you're stuck
in ego, I can do it.
It's me.
I'm the center of the universe.
You kind of miss the
point of surrender
because you are not the
center of the universe.
>>LISA: But Judith, how
do you get anything done?
Not saying that you have
to be a control freak,
but how do you get anything
done if you don't have goals,
if you don't try to control
the outcome of the goals?
How do you move
forward in a place
and be in a place of
surrender at the same time?
>>ORLOFF: Well, the
ecstasy of surrender
and the dance of
surrender is learning
when to move forward and use
your ego, to use your will
to go forward but knowing when
to stop and when to let go,
and then when to
move forward again.
It's a dance.
It's a movement.
It's not one thing or another.
You learn when to
say, all right, now
I could be the mountain and
let somebody come to me instead
of calling, and calling,
and pushing, and pushing.
I'm going to take a breath
and just sit here and wait.
Or at other times, you're
going and knocking on doors,
or you're making calls because
it feels right intuitively.
So much about surrender is
listening to your intuition,
the still small voice
inside that will guide you,
like move forward.
Your body even feels like
moving forward versus no,
I'm pushing too hard.
What I'm teaching
in the book is how
to get to that point of knowing
when I'm pushing too hard,
and it's time to
hang back a little.
>>LISA: Yes.
The pushing hard.
So tell me about your
evolution with surrender.
You have many bestselling
books. "Second Sight"
is a huge book for people where
you talk about your intuition
and how to recognize so
many different things
about intuition.
How did you get to
this place of surrender
where it comes to your whole
conversation around intuition
and being a psychologist?
Yes.
>>ORLOFF: Well, when I
wrote "Second Sight,"
it was a huge surrender for me
to bring it out into the world
because I was coming out as
a psychiatrist and a psychic
or slash intuitive, whatever
you want to call it,
and I was terrified of what my
medical colleagues would think.
So my surrender was
trust, turn it over.
You wrote this book
from your heart.
You wrote your experience.
It's the right thing to do.
Put it out in the world.
Ah, so scary.
I'm so afraid of what
people will think.
So with surrender, it's not
as if you're without fear.
But I just didn't
let fear dominate me.
And o the book was
put out in the world,
and it got such a tremendous
reception for many years.
>>LISA: Even from
colleagues as well?
>>ORLOFF: Some of my colleagues.
Yes, many of my colleagues.
And especially the woman
I'm supervising now
was reading-- the young psych
resident I'm supervising
was reading it when she
was undergoing chemo.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>ORLOFF: So to me,
that's very beautiful
that the opening happens
during a period of crisis.
And who knows when
you reach for a book.
It's a magical thing, isn't it?
The book might fall
out of the bookshelf.
But my coming out, the surrender
of my fear, and coming out
as a psychiatrist
and an intuitive
has been extremely helpful for
other people and other health
care professionals,
and extremely helpful
for my freedom in terms
of finding a voice.
So I had to let go of
that fear and trust
that there was something
really beautiful about what
I was doing and something good.
>>LISA: Was it more of an
internal struggle for you
because of the way
that you were raised
around a professional
family and really
to go down that trajectory
of being the doctor?
>>ORLOFF: Yeah, I think
so because my mother was
so afraid of what people
would think of me.
Would I be considered weird?
Would I be kicked out of
the medical profession?
Would I be laughed at or
whatever she was afraid of?
She didn't want me to be
considered, quote, weird.
That was her worst fear.
And, you know, as I
wrote in the book,
I've given up trying to appear
as normal because I'm not.
>>LISA: Good idea.
We all should give that up.
Yes.
>>ORLOFF: Give it up.
I'm not.
I've always led my own
quirky, different path,
which I follow with
a lot of passion.
But I've never gone
the mainstream.
And I had a mother who
wanted me to go mainstream.
And so part of my
surrender process
has been letting go of
what she thinks of it.
She's on the other side now.
Or anybody else for that matter.
So part of surrender-- and
this is hard for people,
but I teach all
my patients this--
you have to surrender what
other people think of you.
>>LISA: And want from you.
>>ORLOFF: And want from you
and think is best for you.
You have to follow
your intuition, what's
best for yourself.
>>LISA: OK, let's
talk about that,
surrendering what other
people think of you.
I mean, look, when
we're kids, we
try to fit in out of survival.
It all starts there in school.
How do you let go
of that idea of what
other people think of you?
How do you do that?
>>ORLOFF: You have to be
very, very true to yourself.
And you don't do it
in a hostile way,
but you really weigh the
positives and negatives
of what people
say and tell them,
thank you so much
for sharing that.
Let's say I have a strong
opinion about how you should
dress, or how you
should lead your life,
or what person you should
marry-- outrageous things they
shouldn't even comment on.
And you just look at them, and
you say thank you for sharing.
I'll factor that
into my decision.
And then tune in,
listen to yourself.
Is this the person that's right
for me, not my mother, not
my father, not my
teachers, but me?
Is this the person who's
going to nurture me,
and I'm going to have
a good relationship?
You tune in to your
intuition, and you
go with that instead of the
throngs of relatives saying,
but he's not this.
And he's not that.
No, but he's right for me.
>>LISA: Or if it's not
even a relationship.
If it's a career
path, or a passion,
or a hobby to go
back in and say it
doesn't matter what
people think about me.
I want to do this.
And this is what
fills my soul, right?
Is that what you're
saying to do?
Surrendering to that.
>>ORLOFF: Yes.
Go for what gives
you the goosebumps.
As Quincy Jones said in my
book, "Positive Energy,"
when I interviewed him.
Listen to the goosebumps.
He says, he never
goes for projects
without the goosebumps,
that feeling you get.
Yes, I'm moving forward.
And you get a yes.
>>LISA: And he's
been very successful.
And so he listens
to his intuition.
Tell me about when-- what about
surrender is so liberating?
What is that feeling?
>>ORLOFF: Just
exhale and feel how
that surrender--
that's a surrender.
Instead of holding
your breath, you're ah.
>>LISA: Shoulders
are raised and--
>>ORLOFF: Down come the
shoulders, you know,
out go the arms.
You're radiant.
You're moving.
You're flowing instead
of rigid in your head
because unfortunately, a
lot of really smart people
just live up in their head.
So when they age, it's not
easy for their bodies to age
because they've never put
the energy into their bodies.
And when you
surrender as a woman,
let's say, you surrender
to your feminine
and you surrender
to your masculine.
You go back and forth.
Often, in career things with
me, I get into my masculine
because I have to organize
things, I have to send people--
but that's OK.
But I don't stay in that
masculine all the time.
>>LISA: What do you
do for your feminine?
>>ORLOFF: Well, I
have a relationship
that nurtures that, which
is very, very helpful.
I go barefoot.
It's called earthing, bringing
the energy of the earth
into my feet.
I get massages.
I'm in my body.
I feel my body.
I'm very in touch with nature.
I dance.
I do movement.
But it's a conscious shift,
surrendering to your masculine.
When you're in that
mode-- I find it very hard
to be in the
feminine mode and do
a lot of my work, especially
organizational work.
It's not anything the feminine
in me really wants to do.
I just do other things
like go to the beach.
>>LISA: But you're
saying, it's OK to be
in that place of masculine
as a female body.
It's OK for men to be in a place
of feminine as a male body.
And it's the balance of the two.
It doesn't matter if you have
that experience, especially
the male body, if you have
that experience of feeling
the feminine, feeling that
receiving side, feeling that.
You can have both, no matter
what kind of body you have,
right?
>>ORLOFF: Yes, absolutely.
Well, we all started
as X chromosomes.
So we all started as feminine.
>>LISA: Interesting, yes.
>>ORLOFF: I know.
So-- and many men are afraid
of embracing the feminine
in themselves.
And women often embrace
masculine a little bit easier.
But we're both.
>>LISA: Society has a
whole thing around it.
>>ORLOFF: Yeah.
But it's both.
Surrendering-- there's
a whole section
in the book on
surrendering to sexuality,
surrendering to the
divinity of your body,
and how to live in your body and
not just live up in your head.
It's when you live in your
body, you're surrendered.
And by that, I mean
bringing your consciousness
down to your body,
asking yourself
what does my body feel about
this person or this job?
How do you feel?
I'm always talking to my body.
I'm going, how are you in here?
I'm not so good.
OK.
Inner dialogue.
The body is the
divine instrument,
a divine intuitive instrument.
And so we need to
really live in it.
And part of surrendering
is surrendering to the fact
that you have a
body and nurturing
that body with vibrant
energy as much as you can.
Yoga as we were talking,
exercise, meditation
brings the vital
energies into the body.
Just don't sit at
a desk and work,
and stay on your computer,
and sleep, and go home,
and wake up, and
do the same thing.
>>LISA: All over again.
>>ORLOFF: At least keep a
yoga mat by your computer
and just get into
some stretching
pose, which is a
form of surrender.
>>LISA: Interesting.
Yes, stretching is a
wonderful form of surrender.
>>ORLOFF: Oh, it is.
Stretching is so beautiful,
even little stretches.
>>LISA: We're going
to take a look
at a video here of
Judith's Ted Talk.
It's received over a
half a million views.
Take a look at the
beginning of her Ted Talk.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>ORLOFF: You know, I
have a confession to make.
I lost control, but in
the most wonderful way.
Before the sacred hours
of seeing patients,
before writing, I just put
my arms out and danced.
My body just moved
to Dylan's "Sad Eyed
Lady of the Low Lands."
Spontaneous, joyful movements.
No arguing, no resisting,
no holding back.
I just let go.
This is the ecstasy
of surrender.
Today your life is going
to get better learning
about surrender.
As a physician and as a woman,
this is so important to me.
It's what I want
the most in my life,
to be able to flow with things
and not fight, and not resist,
and not hold back, and not
always over think things.
It's such a joy to
be able to flow.
Now what is surrender?
In Sanskrit, surrender
is samprada, the ability
to give yourself wholly to
something, to flow like water,
to not force things.
I'm defining it as
the grace of letting
go at the right
moment, of knowing how
to let go when the time is
right without torturing yourself
with self-doubt or
overthinking things.
How many of you overthink?
How many of you torture
yourself with self-doubt?
That's very common.
But surrender allows
you not to do that.
Imagine a life where
you're not doing that,
and you're able to flow
more with everything
and have more peace in life.
That is the great
joy of surrender.
Now how surrendered are you?
Let me ask you a few questions.
Do you recognize that you
cannot control everything?
How many of you?
I hope you do.
If you've tried your
best with something,
and you've given a project
let's say all of your effort,
are you able to back off
and not torture yourself
with self-doubt and just give
the project some breathing
room?
How many of you are
able to do that?
All right, wonderful.
Can you admit that
you are not right?
Do you have to be
right all the time,
or can you apologize,
can you compromise,
can you let go of
the need to be right?
Oh good.
I see one hand.
Hahaha.
Can you be spontaneous
and not have
to plan every single thing
down to the last detail?
Can you enjoy life?
Can you stop long enough to let
that enjoyment in an absorb it?
Isn't that what it's all about,
just letting that enjoyment in?
And that's the
point of surrender.
As life goes by so
quickly, you know,
you want to take advantage
of every single moment.
And to do that, you have
to be able to let go.
Now what stands in
the way of surrender?
In my life, I know this well.
It's when I want
something too much,
when I'm over invested in it.
When I really want
something a lot,
that can clog the circuits.
And so when you want
something too much,
that's a sign you need
to just back off a little
so you don't get
overbearing with it.
Another thing is
anxiety and fear.
When you clench, when
you get into a fear
mode or an anxious mode, that
stops you from surrendering.
What fascinates me is how
hard it is for most of us
to surrender.
Do you realize how hard it is?
But when you think
about it, you need
to surrender to delight
in an orgasm, don't you?
If you don't surrender, not
much is going to happen.
Or a good night's sleep.
Every night, you need to
surrender when you go to sleep,
otherwise you'll be tossing
and turning all night.
You need to surrender with a
good belly laugh or a good cry.
I love the healing
power of tears.
When you hold back tears,
that's not good for your system.
And so surrendering
to tears, just
letting it flow, or any
emotion, such as grief
when you experience
loss, that is
when you really are
flowing with life.
And so what I want to say is
that we need to bring surrender
into other aspects of our
life where the downside isn't
so obvious, such as
hijacking pleasure,
because if something immediately
hijacked pleasure for you,
you would think twice
about it, hopefully.
>>LISA: OK, I want to
ask you about this part
about pushing hard,
about pushing so hard,
and pushing yourself so hard.
When you've set up things around
you, and you're exhausted,
and you don't want
to push, but you
can't stop because
of all the situations
you've set up around you, how
can you take that break from--
and still fulfill
your commitments?
How can you surrender
to the commitments
that you have, I
guess, is my question.
>>ORLOFF: Well, one thing
I've noticed about myself,
if I'm pushing too hard, I start
to get anxious and exhausted.
So I notice that in myself.
And then I get
impatient with people,
and I'm not really that
great in communicating.
So I try and catch
that in myself
in the beginning compassionately
and say, OK, you're
there again.
Take a little break.
So I'll take a three
minute meditation,
which I talk about in the
book, a three minute heart
meditation where it's
just time out, reset.
I need to be reset here.
Each person has to
reset themselves
when they get off as
quickly as possible.
So I sit.
I close my eyes.
I take a breath.
I tune in to my heart.
And I come back to my
center, and I feel spirit.
And so I realign myself.
Just three minutes, only
three minutes, no longer.
It's just a very time
limited meditation
I suggest for people,
a quick tuneup.
>>LISA: Why no longer?
>>ORLOFF: That's not the
purpose of this meditation.
It's just this a quick
tuneup in a busy life.
It's not 45 minutes of
meditation, not a quiet time.
It's in the midst of chaos.
When you get thrown off, how do
you come back together quickly.
>>LISA: Yes, so you can
have good conversations
and relationships and not
be so short with people.
>>ORLOFF: And I
blow it because when
you get into that
anxious state, you know,
I know I say all
these things that I
wish I could take back later.
It's very common.
That's why I'm bringing it up.
>>LISA: And then, I regret
those conversations.
I was short with that person.
I didn't have compassion
in that situation.
Yeah, absolutely.
Well, there's three
types of surrender
that you talk about in the book.
The first one is crisis.
So when there's a
time of total crisis,
how do you surrender
in that moment?
What are you surrendering to?
>>ORLOFF: Well, crisis,
the Chinese ideogram,
crisis equals opportunity.
So if you look at
crisis as opportunity,
that's the time to surrender.
And oftentimes, people are
forced to submit to surrender.
I had a patient who
O.D.ed on cocaine
and ended up in
the emergency room
for the 10 millionth
time near death's door.
Finally, I've had enough.
I surrender.
I'm going to a 12 step program.
>>LISA: So that moment.
Sometimes we create
those for ourselves
so that we can hit the
bottom and have a real excuse
to be able to surrender.
But the idea is not to
get that far, right?
>>ORLOFF: It's not
to get that far.
And sometimes, illness could
be a prompt to surrender.
The crisis of illness makes
you reevaluate everything
in your life, what's
important, in a second.
When you become ill,
your reality shifts.
And so suddenly,
what's important?
Where do I want
to give my energy?
Where can't I waste it anymore.
You can't waste it
worrying and being in fear.
You have to be positive
in order to heal.
So illness is a crisis that
I've seen as a physician really
aligns people with--
it can align people
with their inner needs
and their purpose.
But as you said, you can wait
for a crisis, but I wouldn't.
>>LISA: It's hard.
I mean to push yourself to that
limit is-- and I've been there.
I've been sick where I've had
to monitor every single thought
because the negative ones
drain the energy when
my energy is just limited.
So yeah, it definitely
puts you into that place.
But the idea is not to get
there and to listen to the signs
beforehand so that you
don't continue to push.
Another one is surrendering
anxiety and fear.
>>ORLOFF: Oh, that's so
big just for everyone
to make a commitment
on a daily basis
to try and surrender
anxiety and fear,
and instead come from
the heart and trust where
your intuition is leading you.
That's not fear or anxiety.
>>LISA: Give me
an example of what
that means, surrendering
to anxiety or fear.
What's an example of that?
>>ORLOFF: Well, let's say
you're after a career.
You're really looking for
a career in, let's say,
the fashion industry.
And you want to go
for that career,
but you have all kinds of fear
that you're not this enough
or not that enough, and
so you stay in your room,
and you don't make any
calls, and you don't go out
as opposed to oh my god,
this feels so good inside.
This is where I belong.
And I'm scared.
And I'm going to make
the call anyways.
>>LISA: So surrendering to that
fear and diving into it, right?
>>ORLOFF: Well, diving into
it but not letting it stop you
by saying, all
right, I'm afraid.
But so what?
Everybody's afraid.
You have no idea how much
fear is in everybody.
I've walked through things.
I am so scared.
When I did that Ted Talk, I was
afraid to the very last minute.
And I thought, usually,
my fear lifts before then.
The very last
minute I was afraid
because you have to
stand in a little circle
when you do the Ted Talk.
And I couldn't move
out of the circle.
And it was inhibiting
my activity.
So I didn't know
if I could do it.
But the minute I got
up there, it lifted.
And I was able to--
>>LISA: You looked comfortable.
>>ORLOFF: Yeah, comfortable.
I was able to-- because I
connected with the audience,
and that always aligns me, when
I'm connecting with people.
>>LISA: What about
that surrendering
to the fear of public speaking?
Where did you put
your attention?
>>ORLOFF: Not on myself.
I'm not in my personal self.
I don't think about me.
I think about the audience
and what I could give to them.
And then I'm in the flow.
Then I'm really grooving.
But if I got up when I spoke
in front of, let's say,
hundreds of people, and
I was thinking oh my god,
I'm up here-- I
don't think about me.
>>LISA: Oh god no.
Yeah, that would be awful.
>>ORLOFF: It's surrendering
my self and my personal self
and just feeling the ecstasy
of the flow of speaking
and the audience that you
feel when you do your show.
It's just so beautiful to
be able to give up your ego
and just be in the energy.
That's a surrender.
It really is.
>>LISA: I love the word
ecstasy, because it is;
it's that pure
bliss of surrender.
>>ORLOFF: Of connection.
When you can let go of your
fear even for a moment.
Just the bliss of connection,
the ecstasy of I'm with you.
And I could be with you totally.
I'm nowhere else.
Surrendering is
being in the now.
And that is the key to ecstasy
when nothing else intrudes,
just me and you here,
doing this show,
having fun, feeling the
ecstasy of this connection.
And then it builds.
Then you start to really feel
almost altered states from it.
>>LISA: And I'm grateful for it.
I'm grateful for our connection.
I'm grateful for our
female to femaleness.
Whatever it is, it
comes out of it.
It rises out of it.
So that's the other--
another part of surrender
is surrendering to what is.
This is what is.
Being out in nature,
surrendering to that.
>>ORLOFF: This is all
you have, this moment.
Everyone is watching it.
This is your moment.
This is it, the capital IT.
This is it.
There's nothing else.
As Ram Dass said, be here now.
It was true.
Be here now.
>>LISA: And the power of now.
>>ORLOFF: Power of now.
Now is it.
Where it's at.
Now is gone now.
Now is a new now.
>>LISA: Right now.
Yes, yes.
And now is now.
Yes.
This is a new now.
>>ORLOFF: It's a new now.
And this is time passing
in the human realm.
So you want to make the
most of every moment.
And you could squander it
worrying and being in fear,
but as we said, the
minute you get sick,
your energy is limited.
You don't have the
energy to worry anymore.
When you're feeling well,
you have all this energy.
And you can choose
how to use it.
You could waste it worrying.
Now, I talk about in
the book the difference
between concern and worry.
Now concern is just
having legitimate concerns
about something.
Worrying is a form of
rumination and suffering.
>>LISA: Oh, because
it lasts longer,
and it's usually not founded.
>>ORLOFF: Beat, beat,
beat over, over.
Rumination circles.
Being concerned, I'm
concerned about my child
because she doesn't feel well.
That's legitimate.
But I'm concerned
she's going to die.
She's not going to be there.
You know, around and around.
Part of surrender is
working things down instead
of the drama of
working things up.
>>LISA: What do you mean?
>>ORLOFF: You have a choice.
You can fuel fear, or
you can bring it down.
You can make things small.
I have a Taoist
spiritual teacher,
and he says make things small.
Don't make them large.
Don't blow them up.
Make them smaller.
>>LISA: So denominalizing
issues, drama, whatever it is?
Just taking it down.
>>ORLOFF: Well, drama.
It's just like saying, I
have been through so much
in my life.
Here's another challenge.
I'm going to get through this.
At the moment, I
can't figure it out,
but we'll get through it
as opposed to oh my god,
my life is over.
>>LISA: Right.
Sometimes, I can tend
to get in the moment
so much that I do make
myself late a lot.
But then that causes anxiety.
So there's one thing about
surrendering in the moment,
but then you also have to
stay keen to your commitments.
How do you do that?
>>ORLOFF: Well, it's both.
It's the reality of
time commitments.
You could set a timer on your
phone or something like that.
You have to because, otherwise,
you'll never get anywhere.
>>LISA: Right.
Right.
Exactly.
And fulfill those commitments.
All right.
We're going to take another
look at the Ted Talk
that Dr. Judith Orloff gave.
And in this particular place,
she's talking about one
of her patients.
Take a look.
>>ORLOFF: I had a patient,
Eve, who was 92 years old.
And her daughter was dying.
When her daughter died, she
called me to be by her side
in the hospital at Cedar Sinai.
And as I was going
down the hall,
I heard her wailing
and screaming.
The nurses came up to me,
and they were very concerned
with her, that she
would collapse.
She was a little old
lady, very frail.
And she was really, really
making a lot of noise.
And in my psychiatric
training at USC and UCLA,
I was trained to treat
patients at a kind of distance
and certainly to
never touch them.
We were never trained
to even put a hand
or pat them on the back,
keep a safe distance.
But the minute I
walked into that room,
this little lady
jumped into my arms
and wrapped her body around
mine in the fetal position
and was wailing and crying.
And her tears were all over me.
And the newly minted
psychiatrist in me
was in total shock.
But I knew that I had to
surrender to that moment
because it's what Eve needed.
And it's what was
right, you see.
And so she spent
about an hour crying.
And then she detached
herself from me, basically.
And we talked.
And then that was the beginning
of her grieving process.
So I learned how important
it is to trust the moment,
to be there with people.
It might not be
what you thought.
It might not be what you
thought, but it is what it is.
So you flow with that.
And you trust the
integrity of that.
That's trusting life.
I'm so passionate
about surrender
because I learned about
it from my mother,
in terms of how she
didn't surrender.
At age 70, she was a family
practitioner in Beverly Hills,
and she decided to take
her national board exams.
And for those of you
who know what this is,
it's as intense as the
bar exam is for lawyers.
It's so intense.
And she felt that she
needed to do this in order
to keep up with the
younger doctors.
And at that point, she was about
the best healer I've ever met.
And she had a huge practice.
And she had all these
patients who loved her.
And in fact, when I
was a little girl,
I used to go on
house calls with her.
And she even took
me to the hospital
when she made chicken
soup for Mick Jagger
when I was a teenager.
So I got to meet him.
You can imagine what
a thrill that was.
I used to go with her
in her pink Cadillac
up into the hills of Bel Air.
And I would watch
her with patients.
She would listen
with a stethoscope.
She had a bag, the old
time family doctor.
And she would listen
to her patients.
She was truly so gifted.
But the thing about my mother
was that a million people could
tell her how wonderful she
was, and she would only
look at her negative
points and her self-doubt.
And that's not unlike
a lot of people
that you could have
so much going for you,
but yet a small percentage--
somebody says one little thing,
and you're off and running.
And so she took this
exam and put herself
through so much stress.
And 20 years before
that, she had
been diagnosed with a
pretty benign lymphoma.
But while she was
taking the test,
the months she took studying,
and beating herself up,
and not feeling she was
enough, the cell type
changed to a malignant leukemia.
And although my
mother heroically
passed the test,
soon after, she died.
And as she was
dying, she said to me
that she felt the
stress of the test
was what caused the
cell type to change.
And so as her daughter, I was
really standing there helpless.
There was nothing I
could do to intervene.
I was there supporting her.
But I watched my mother do this.
And it was through losing
the dearest person to me
that I gained a very hard lesson
on surrender, because I, too,
am a workaholic.
I, too, have self doubts.
I can push myself.
So I am my mother's daughter.
And so I knew in order for
me to be happy and free
and lead a beautiful life,
I needed to surrender.
I needed to learn
how to do that.
And I didn't want to follow in
her footsteps in that sense.
And so I learned early on what
it was like not to surrender
and that, you know,
sometimes life
gives you some hard lessons.
And I hope you all
learn from them.
We all have hard lessons.
I hope you learn from them.
And I learned from
this, and thus, it
has spurred my passion in
what it means to surrender.
>>LISA: So we've talked
about being a control freak.
And it's such a weird
word to give it, freak.
Is there a good side
to being controlling?
Is there a shadow side
to it and a positive sign
to being controlling at all?
>>ORLOFF: Oh absolutely.
I mean in some situations,
you want to be in control.
When you're a parent, you
need to be in control.
You can't let your
child run you.
You have to be the
one who's in control.
If you're leading a business,
you have to be a leader.
You have to be in control
at the same time yielding
to other people.
It's balance.
A control freak never
lets anybody do anything.
They never delegate.
They want to do
everything themselves.
And you can't do it right.
And that's not a way
to run a business,
or a corporation, or
anything because people
want to feel valued.
And if you're not allowing
people to do their creativity,
and you're trying to
control everything,
you're stifling them.
But it's good to control
certain things in terms of you
want to go to college.
You want to study.
I had to control a lot going
through medical school,
my psychiatric residency.
I had to really control
my mind and study,
study, study all the time
and get a lot of sleep.
And when I worked with
patients, and I was on call
every third night
for many, many years.
You really are in control
in those situations.
Patients come to you in
life and death emergencies.
So it's good for
me to be in control
and know what to do and
know what to prescribe
or what tests to order.
I had to be.
>>LISA: Interesting.
Absolutely.
And being as empathic
and intuitive as you are,
was that challenging
for you, where
you would see people come
with mental illness or demons
or things like that.
Was it hard for you to
monitor your intuition
during those times?
>>ORLOFF: Well, you know,
it was so interesting
because in those
times of crisis,
I'm out of my personal self,
and I'm into a selfless mode.
And so when I'm not
in my personal self,
I don't get drained as much
until afterwards just sheer
not sleeping.
But when somebody is in front
of me with an emergency,
I go out of my personal
self, and I just
click into intuitive
knowing, quick, fast.
I mean that's the
advantage of my being
an intuitive psychiatrist is
that somebody can come to me,
and I bam, bam, bam.
I get pretty much
the story quickly.
I don't wait weeks and
weeks to figure it out.
>>LISA: Right.
So you can intuit that and then
help somebody faster, and not
prolong a problem.
>>ORLOFF: The misery.
>>LISA: Yes.
Absolutely.
Yes.
Do you still see patients?
>>ORLOFF: I do.
>>LISA: Do you have a long-- a
long waiting list of patients?
>>ORLOFF: Oh yeah, usually.
But I find that people find
me who need to find me.
>>LISA: No, that's a good
way of looking at it.
All right, so there's 12
different types of ways
that letting go can
help in surrender.
And I want to go through
some of these, which I found.
So how can you surrender in a--
it says letting go of power.
Letting go of power.
So when you surrender
in that place,
how do you surrender and
be in a place of power
at the same time?
You can't, can you?
>>ORLOFF: Well, what I'm
talking about-- in the book,
I go through
different surrenders
in different chapters.
And one is surrender your
old views about power.
And what I mean by that is the
egocentric view and the greed
view of power, or I need
to control everybody,
the corporate view, the
old paradigm view of power.
And what I'm suggesting
is to surrender that
and to come into a more heart
centered view of power, which
is really more the
soft forms of power
versus the hard
forms of power, which
are adrenaline and
testosterone ruling the world.
>>LISA: So what is
another view of power?
>>ORLOFF: Another view of
power is to look at true power.
What makes a truly
powerful person?
Is it the amount
of money they have?
Is it whatever they
have on the outside?
Yes, in terms of worldly power,
but if you equate happiness
with power, it's a bit
of a different thing.
>>LISA: And love.
>>ORLOFF: And love,
and heart centered,
and giving back to
the world, and being
conscious of the
Earth, and being
devoted to your inner
work and your inner life.
That makes people happy.
I talk about in the book
the happiness set point.
That's the basic level of
happiness we feel in our lives.
And it's been proven that
if you win the lottery,
you'll get happier for
a little period of time,
but you'll go back to your same
level of misery you had before.
But what will change
the happiness set
point is if you meditate,
if you come from your heart,
if you do good,
if you surrender,
then you get happier.
The happiness set point changes,
and you're happier more often.
And to me, that's the goal.
Why be king of the world
if you're not happy?
>>LISA: It's happened
too many times.
>>ORLOFF: But what's the point?
I've worked with so many people,
corporate executives, studio
heads who've had
these huge jobs.
And then they age,
and the job is gone.
And they wonder why their wives
don't have passion for them
or where their friends are.
And so at any point, people
could start a spiritual path,
at any point.
It's just harder when you're 70.
You can.
But any age, it's possible.
And I support people at any age
beginning their spiritual path.
>>LISA: And you also talk
about redefining success
along these same
lines of surrendering
to a new definition of success.
Take, for example,
retiring and moving
into a different level of life.
How do you suggest
to someone retiring
to a new definition of success?
>>ORLOFF: Well, success is
your level of happiness.
And your level of fulfillment
and connection with yourself
is the inner surrender.
It's surrendering to
what's inside of you.
So much of part of
the spiritual path
is about going inside,
feeling yourself,
and not fighting yourself,
feeling your soul
and surrendering to
your soul's mission,
whether it's retiring or running
a corporation or being in love
or not being in love or
whatever you're doing,
surrender to your inner self.
Surrender to you
because that's who
goes with you when you
leave this wherever.
>>LISA: Absolutely.
All right, let's talk
about relationships.
Surrendering to the-- you
mention obsessive relationships
where people are
unavailable emotionally.
Not surrendering to those
but surrendering to-- yeah,
I caught myself
there-- surrendering
to no longer being in
those relationships.
How do you do that?
>>ORLOFF: There's a
chapter in the book
on surrendering to soul
mates, and finding soul mates,
and finding healthy
relationships.
And part of that-- and so many
patients come to me saying I
want my soul mate.
But there's no
good men out there.
There's no good women
out there, whatever
that is, that statement is and
that mass belief that that's
true.
And my work with
them and in the book,
how to surrender patterns
that keep you from love.
And one of the patterns
is being attracted
to unavailable men or women.
>>LISA: Big pattern.
>>ORLOFF: Big pattern.
>>LISA: Popular pattern.
>>ORLOFF: Popular pattern.
>>LISA: What does
that stem from?
>>ORLOFF: It usually
stems from having
a father who wasn't
available or a mother who
was too suffocating, so you
wanted to get away from her.
So when someone
gets close to you,
you start freaking out because
there's too much closeness,
and you associate
it with suffocation.
So part of the work
is realizing you
can't find a mate who's
unavailable, transform them,
and that will heal your initial
relationship with your father.
It doesn't work, though
people try it all the time.
They think if only--
I found this guy.
He's not available.
But if only I could change him,
I could get him to love me,
then somehow the inner
psyche thinks, oh, then
I'll heal the pattern
from my father.
And as much as that may
make sense to people,
it never works.
>>LISA: Do you think that's why
there are so many affairs where
women go after unavailable
men that are married
or men go after unavailable
women who are married.
Do you think this
stems from that?
>>ORLOFF: Well, maybe if
they're looking for connection
with that person.
Yes, but I think so many
people are commitment phobic
because of what's
happened to them early on.
They're afraid of suffocation.
And in the book, I
talk about empaths.
And empaths are people who
are very open and sensitive,
like emotional sponges, but they
take on the stress of others.
So I talk about what is
a relationship empath.
And a relationship
empath is somebody
who takes on the
stress of their spouse,
so then they avoid relationships
because they feel engulfed
by being too close
in relationships.
And so for empaths--
and I'm an empath--
I always have to negotiate
my square footage needs
with people so they're not
on top of me all the time.
And it's a balance.
It's really a balance.
>>LISA: Well
because you probably
feel into them so much more than
if they just give you an inch,
you see the mile.
>>ORLOFF: Yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
>>LISA: Interesting.
All right, so another
one is-- let's talk
about surrendering
to sexual power.
What does that mean?
>>ORLOFF: Well, part of
our energy field is sexual.
The first and second chakras,
which is around the genitals
and down in the mid abdomen.
And so surrendering to that--
first of all, living in that,
not just living from the
neck up, but living down here
and feeling what's going
on in your genitals,
and your feminine, your
masculine, all of that,
that's a form of connecting to
the full power of your energy
field, which goes from
the sexual areas way up
to the top of the head,
the white light connection.
So it's integrating it all,
whether you have a partner
or not.
>>LISA: Well, that's
also-- that sexual energy,
that sexual power center is
where you birth things, too.
You can birth ideas and
birth passions for something.
There's a lot of
energy that comes
from-- isn't that what
the kundalini energy is?
>>ORLOFF: Yes.
>>LISA: It is.
It's that creative
power, essentially.
>>ORLOFF: Yes, exactly.
And there's a meditation
I have in the book.
It's called the
orgasmic meditation
where I suggest that
people have an orgasm
and then meditate
immediately afterwards.
Just sit up in bed, and
get quiet, and meditate,
and bring that energy up.
And it goes whoosh up
to the top of the head.
And you feel the rush
of the kundalini.
And then sit in meditation
15 minutes, 30 minutes,
or however long it goes.
And then you feel nurtured
by that sexual energy
throughout your body.
>>LISA: That's a wonderful
way of receiving--
that's a wonderful way.
Let's talk about
what surrendering
does to the brain,
the brain chemistry.
What does it do?
>>ORLOFF: Well,
surrendering is so beautiful
because it gets the
endorphins going.
And the endorphins are
the natural painkillers
and the blissful neurochemicals
that make you feel ecstasy.
The ecstasy of surrender comes
from, in part, the endorphins.
And it's through meditation,
through laughter, through sex,
through exercise.
You get endorphins
being in nature
and really absorbing nature.
The endorphins start flowing
in your brain and your body,
making you feel good.
>>LISA: And that's an
example of surrender.
It has a literal
chemical waterfall
that happens of happy hormones.
>>ORLOFF: Happy hormones.
And you can create them.
>>LISA: Fascinating.
Just by surrendering,
you can start that.
>>ORLOFF: Absolutely.
You let go.
If everyone listening here
just lets go, take a breath,
drink your water very slowly.
Just sit and feel
pleasure in your body.
Then the endorphins wake up and
start going through your body.
And that's-- notice
how you feel.
>>LISA: Created a domino
effect in the body.
That's beautiful.
>>ORLOFF: And that's
what you want.
But people don't realize
they're in charge of that.
And you could practice by being
in fear, just practice being
in fear.
Just get all your
fearful thoughts up,
see how you feel with all that.
>>LISA: Contracted.
>>ORLOFF: Yes,
contracted, tense.
You could work yourself up, or
you can do it the other way.
And it's your choice.
>>LISA: Are there
other techniques
that you mention like
drinking the water slowly
that can instigate somebody
going into surrender that
could-- little, teeny things
that could really start someone
from unlocking themselves
from control to surrender?
>>ORLOFF: Yes, just the
breath for one thing.
Just exhale, everyone listening.
Instead of clenching, just ah.
And you feel your
abdominal muscles release.
You feel energy going.
And your whole body, just relax.
And also put your
hand on your heart,
which is the heart
chakra, right here.
And begin to picture something
very loving or beautiful
such as the waterfall or
beautiful feathers or dancing.
>>LISA: Laughter.
>>ORLOFF: Laughter.
And just get that pumping.
Get that energy pumping
from your heart.
You can move your energy.
And I work with all
my patients this way
to teach them how to move the
heart energy because if you're
having an anxiety attack
or you're starting
to get stressed, you have
to bring it down quickly.
And this is the soothing energy.
It's the healing
energy in the heart.
And the more you
become used to that,
the more you can surrender.
Or just take a big stretch.
One thing I suggest is
have everyone look up.
Look at the sky.
Notice your place
in the universe.
You'll be filled
with awe and wonder.
That's the point of surrender
is to get in touch with that.
And then let go to it.
Just look up.
Don't keep looking
horizontal or down.
In the night sky with
the various eclipses
we've been having, the blood
moon you know, just stay up
and watch it.
>>LISA: Yes.
Those are fun.
Yes, we did that.
Let's talk about
surrendering to aging.
That's a part of the
twelve ways of letting go.
How can you-- how
do you surrender
to that aging process?
>>ORLOFF: Yeah,
that's hard, isn't it?
>>LISA: Things
change in the body,
and things start to shrivel up.
>>ORLOFF: Yeah, and then
you leave your body.
But leaving the body is
different than aging.
But Ram Dass talks about
that, a beautiful way
of talking about surrendering
during aging where you see
yourself more as a soul than an
ego, when you begin to identify
with your true
essence and your soul.
And you feel that primarily.
In the book, I talk
about spiritual aging.
And it's the only-- it
gets better with age.
The more you are devoted
to your spiritual path,
the more you connect, the older
you get, the better it gets.
>>LISA: The wiser
you get, absolutely.
But is there a difference
between being wiser
and surrendering?
>>ORLOFF: Not necessarily wiser.
It is wiser, but it's more
connected to the mysteries
of the universe and to
your soul and to spirit.
And the more you can feel
that radiance of spirit
as you develop energetically.
Physical aging is one thing.
And there's certainly
a number of things
you can do to help
with physical aging.
And I go through everything
from bioidentical hormones
to supplements and other
things that can really
help physical
aging-- and exercise.
There are very
conscious things you
can do so you could be
as youthful as possible
and feel as good as possible
on the physical level.
But there's also spiritual
aging and surrendering
to the power that comes
from that, and the radiance
and the connection
with the universe.
Aging is about expanded
connections and development.
And then also emotional aging.
You could age well or not well.
And surrendering to, let's
say, letting go of fear.
And then as you age, fear
becomes less and less.
I mean, imagine that.
>>LISA: Yeah, it does.
It denominalizes as you go
along because you realize
those things that you were
afraid of haven't happened
to this point.
And if they do, oh well.
>>ORLOFF: I just want to
say, I'm so much better
now at this age than
I was 20 years ago.
>>LISA: Oh yeah, we all are.
Age.
It does make us
wiser, but also you
don't care as much about
the little teeny things.
You realize that moment will
pass and that moment will pass.
And it just does.
>>ORLOFF: And you
go towards love.
>>LISA: Oh, yes.
That's a good point.
>>ORLOFF: Let that be your
guiding light is love,
and love in yourself,
love in other people.
And love feeds you
in all situations.
>>LISA: What about death?
What about
surrendering to death?
>>ORLOFF: Well, it's inevitable.
>>LISA: That's true.
>>ORLOFF: And as an
intuitive, I guess
I have an advantage in a way
where I've been able to tune
in to death and know that
it's nothing to fear.
And I've known that since
I've been a little girl.
So I've always--
>>LISA: What do you mean?
>>ORLOFF: Our spirits
will become more radiant,
and you'll be more yourselves
in so many ways you can't even
envision it.
And we're so connected
to this body.
I love this package
I've been given.
I love it.
And I don't want to
give it up either,
but this is time limited.
So I'm going to enjoy
it while I have it.
But I once went to a medium
in the UK, and she said to me,
you have more friends on the
other side than you do here.
>>LISA: Oh, interesting.
Interesting.
So you're excited
to get there, right?
>>ORLOFF: No.
>>LISA: Well, I
mean, not excited,
but when you get
there, it's not going
to be the end of-- it's not
going to be as devastating.
>>ORLOFF: It's not going
to be devastating at all.
I mean, that's what's so
mind blowing about it.
It's not going to
be devastating.
It's not about devastation.
The loss that people go
through here when you go,
it will be devastating
for them to lose you.
But that's different than
you going to the other side.
>>LISA: A friend of mine just
lost his mother to cancer,
but he had the privilege
of spending her last two
weeks of life with her.
And he sat by her bedside
for two solid weeks, day,
night, day, night.
And it turned into such a
beautiful experience for him
to watch his mother surrender.
And I know that that has got
to be such a challenging thing
to do.
And I was talking with
him during the process.
But he was so-- he looks
at her as such a hero
because she approached
death-- at the beginning,
it was extremely hard for her.
But then to eventually
surrender to the process
became a blissful
experience for both of them.
>>ORLOFF: Oh, that's beautiful.
That's so, so beautiful to be
able to be with your parents
to help them surrender.
I also had that with both
my mother and my father,
and I helped them
surrender the physical body
and go to the other side.
And it's extremely powerful.
It's a letting go-- you
know, especially my mother,
the wrenching feeling of losing
the physical form of my mother.
I wrote about it
in "Second Sight."
It was very hard for me
at the time-- as a woman,
I was so connected
to my mother--
letting the physical form go.
>>LISA: Do you have a
relationship with her now?
>>ORLOFF: I do.
And my father actually is
closer to me than my mother.
My mother I think has
gone on to other things
more than my father
has made a commitment
to stay with me
until I pass over.
>>LISA: Wow.
Wonderful.
That experience
is-- when somebody's
taken from you suddenly,
it's a lot harder.
>>ORLOFF: Oh, that's different.
That's much different because
you don't have time to prepare.
>>LISA: And it seems
unjust, especially a child.
>>ORLOFF: Yes.
And life isn't fair.
It's not always about fairness.
>>LISA: Can you really
surrender to that kind of pain?
>>ORLOFF: You know, the heart is
stretched in so many ways that
cause us to surrender in so
many ways we think we can't.
And that aren't-- it's not fair
to ask us to surrender in those
ways, and yet we're
asked to do it.
We're faced with the impossible.
So you have a choice.
And you could either not
surrender and stay stuck in it,
or try, try, try to find
something larger to open up
to to carry you through.
Like what many mothers
do in that position,
in terms of their
surrender, is to help
other mothers who have
lost their children.
So they turn their grief
into helping others.
And that's no easy thing.
None of this is easy.
And surrenders
sometimes are-- you
don't know any way
you're going to do it.
And yet, that's
what's asked of you.
And so you either
do it or you don't.
And if you don't, you'll suffer.
>>LISA: I heard on
the news this morning
of a woman who lost her son.
And I think the
son's name was BJ.
And he-- she took
his ashes and gave it
to individual people that were
going to fulfill his dreams.
So he always had this dream,
I guess, to go to space.
And there was a
situation where--
I don't know how
it happened, but it
was on the news about a rocket
that took his ashes into space
and not release
them, but you know,
she was fulfilling or helping
him fulfill his dreams
through-- that was her process.
And it was an amazing story.
And there are so many
stories like that.
It's definitely a process.
There's no easy
answer for that one.
>>ORLOFF: There's no
easy answer except part
of understanding the
ecstasy of surrender
is knowing that our stay
here is time limited,
therefore we must
enjoy every moment.
And there will come a time
when everyone listening
to this show, including
us, will be gone.
And that's just how it is.
And you can fight it, or you
can try and flow with the fact
that your spirit is
real and powerful,
and it's not going anywhere.
And your body is temporary,
as much as your ego might
get so upset at that idea,
from an intuitive standpoint--
And that's why I'm asking
people to surrender
to their intuition.
From an intuitive
standpoint, you
can get a yes on
I'm going to be OK.
When you really go
deep in yourself,
and you tune in to it.
There's a meditation
in the book that I
suggest for everyone
going through this that's
questioning on
experiencing death.
And I take people
into the death space
and how to surrender to
that very slowly so you
can get an intuitive
sense of what it is.
And our society has made
such a big deal out of it.
And if you want to do the
meditation in the book,
you can do it slowly where you
picture death eight feet away,
seven feet away, six feet, then
slowly, then, merging with it
and feeling-- you're
not going to die.
Don't worry.
People always think they will,
but it doesn't work that way.
It's just an energy.
It's there from
the moment you're
born to the moment you die.
Death is a very creative
energy, so much so it helps you
with your transition
to the other side.
>>LISA: Interesting
to not be as painful.
There are certain cultures
that the minute you're born,
you start talking about death.
And it's part of
life, as part of life.
>>ORLOFF: We're death
phobic in this society.
But surrender-- that's
the final surrender.
But in the meantime,
we have lots
of years to practice
other forms of surrender
and feel the release, because
you want to feel the release.
And especially,
if you're going--
you're ending a relationship,
and you're going through grief,
you know, you have to
release the person,
you know, no matter how
heartbroken you are.
I love you.
I adore you.
It didn't work out.
I release you.
And then say that
mantra over and over
so that you can go
on with your life.
It's very important to surrender
to your future and your present
and not stay stuck in what
didn't work, no matter
how unfair that was.
>>LISA: Even in the
situation of a divorce?
>>ORLOFF: Anything.
>>LISA: Yeah, anything.
Very powerful advice.
>>ORLOFF: Love is number one.
You move towards love
and towards the heart
no matter how much
you've been hurt.
And is that a big undertaking?
I'd say yes, but that's
what this is all about.
And you don't have to
do it, but if you really
want to expand and
feel the ecstasy,
this is a door into it.
>>LISA: A good way to do it.
We're going to take a look at
a clip that-- a piece of video
that you interviewed Ram Dass.
And talk about surrendering.
Ram Dass had a stroke
several years ago.
And his-- the way that
he talks, there's long
pauses between the
times that he talks,
but they're so
filled with energy.
Take a look.
>>RAM DASS: In the
West-- in the West,
they shy away from
the word surrender
because it means you
surrender to somebody.
And when I say, I'm
surrendering to Maharaj Ji,
the Maharaj Ji is in my heart.
I'm surrendering to my
intuition, my wisdom.
Wisdom that I've gathered
subjectively, not objectively.
>>LISA: What was
that interview like
for you to sit with Ram Dass
and those beautiful pauses
that he has between
his teachings?
>>ORLOFF: Yes, well actually,
he was interviewing me.
>>LISA: He was?
Oh, my gosh.
>>ORLOFF: Yes.
I flew out to Maui to his home.
He invited me there to be part
of a webcast to his community.
>>LISA: Oh, interesting.
How wonderful.
>>ORLOFF: So it was probably
my most favorite interview
in my entire life because
he gives off so much love,
and he's not that verbal.
So it was about nonverbally
communicating with him.
It's the opposite of
the soundbite culture.
It was flowing with
the love and the energy
and the brilliance
and his-- I kept
wanting to hug him
the whole time.
It's a beautiful interview.
I was so happy.
And we were looking out
onto the coast in Maui.
And we had a circle of
nice people around us
who were beaming love.
It was quite a wonderful
experience for me.
>>LISA: Talk about surrender.
Surrendering to love.
It's beautiful.
Well, thank you so much
for surrendering with me
and helping me learn
about surrender.
And I appreciate you being here.
Thank you so much, Judith.
>>ORLOFF: Oh, you're
so welcome, Lisa.
>>LISA: If you would like to
watch a replay of my interview
with Dr. Judith Orloff,
you can go to gaiamtv.com.
And you can share it with
your friends as well.
Until next time, I invite
you to stay inspired.
[MUSIC PLAYING]